.agents/skills/workflow-verify-commit-pr/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: workflow-verify-commit-pr
description: Run verification, stage files, commit changes, and open a GitHub PR using deterministic commands.
---

# Workflow Verify Commit PR

## Inputs
- task id
- commit message
- PR title
- optional PR body file path

## Procedure
1. Run `scripts/finish-task.ps1 -TaskId "<TASK_ID>" -CommitMessage "<MSG>" -PrTitle "<TITLE>" [-PrBodyFile <path>]`.
2. Confirm command output includes commit SHA, PR URL, and task status transitioned to `review`.
3. Confirm task metadata now includes PR link fields for UI surfacing:
   - `metadata.workflow.pullRequestUrl`
   - `metadata.workflow.pullRequestNumber` (if parseable)
   - `metadata.github.prUrl`
4. If script fails, stop and report exact failure; do not replace with manual git/PR commands in normal flow.

## Guardrails
- Stop if verification fails.
- Stop if `git push origin HEAD` fails.
- Do not open PR with unverified changes.
- Keep commit scope limited to active task.
- Never mark `done` from this skill; it should stop at `review`.
- Update task stage through backend API only (`PATCH /tasks/:id`); do not edit task JSON files directly.
- Treat `scripts/finish-task.ps1` as the single deterministic completion path for this repository workflow.

Commit message:

chore(workflow): auto-run finish-task and fix metadata-first review transition

.agents/skills/workflow-verify-commit-pr/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: workflow-verify-commit-pr
description: Run verification, stage files, commit changes, and open a GitHub PR using deterministic commands.
---

# Workflow Verify Commit PR

## Inputs
- task id
- commit message
- PR title
- optional PR body file path

## Procedure
1. Run `scripts/finish-task.ps1 -TaskId "<TASK_ID>" -CommitMessage "<MSG>" -PrTitle "<TITLE>" [-PrBodyFile <path>]`.
2. Confirm command output includes commit SHA, PR URL, and task status transitioned to `review`.
3. Confirm task metadata now includes PR link fields for UI surfacing:
   - `metadata.workflow.pullRequestUrl`
   - `metadata.workflow.pullRequestNumber` (if parseable)
   - `metadata.github.prUrl`
4. If script fails, stop and report exact failure; do not replace with manual git/PR commands in normal flow.

## Automation default
- After acceptance criteria are met and verification passes, execute this skill immediately.
- Do not pause for extra user confirmation before running `finish-task` unless the user explicitly requests a pause.
- Only stop before execution when blocked (for example failing checks, missing credentials, or missing required human input).

## Guardrails
- Stop if verification fails.
- Stop if `git push origin HEAD` fails.
- Do not open PR with unverified changes.
- Keep commit scope limited to active task.
- Never mark `done` from this skill; it should stop at `review`.
- Update task stage through backend API only (`PATCH /tasks/:id`); do not edit task JSON files directly.
- Treat `scripts/finish-task.ps1` as the single deterministic completion path for this repository workflow.
